# Stack-DS
Stack-DS is a Python-3-based Integrated Development Environment for Pandas. Stack-DS speeds up the process of wrangling, cleaning, visualizing, manipulating, understanding, and exporting data from Pandas DataFrames. Stack-DS is not intended to be a replacement for Python. The application allows for manipulation and prediction, but only within the reigns of what is plausible, and ideal for the everyday user.
## Introduction
Stack-DS is an expansive-soon-to-be category of apps that bring machine learning and data into the hands of the user. The purpose of Stack is to make predictive assumptions based on what is seen in front of them. The Stack-DS Library will include several applications, currently in development are the following Stack-DS Applications:
zIpy - An IDE capable of editing a multitude of filetypes, and capable of editing ML generated by StackDS
Dashlee - A development environment for HTML Plot.ly dash designed to be used with data opened from Stack-DS
More to come - After Development ensues, eventually, more features will be added to Stack.
### Installation
Version 0.1.0 of Stack-DS will be released for MacOS, Linux, and Windows. However, The unstable releases between full releases ,(i.e. 0.0.5), will be available as source.
#### Stack-DS Dependencies
IPython (clear_output, Image, display)
GTK (Gtk, GdkPixbuf, Gdk)
Numpy
Pandas
imgkit
#### Fix Dependency issues
##### ipython
(sudo) pip install ipython
##### pandas
(sudo) pip install pandas
##### numpy
(sudo) pip install numpy
##### gtk
(sudo) pip install gtk
##### imgkit
sudo apt-get install wkhtmltopdf
##### SKLearn
(sudo) pip install sklearn
## Install StackDS
##### Run from source
Ensure you have the dependencies listed above,
Then:
python stackds.py
StackDS can run under Python 3 and Python 2 as of right now.
Python 2 is set to be deprecated in early January.
##### Ubuntu
Apt install is not going to be available until an official release is fabricated.
##### Snap
Snap Install not yet available, unfortunately,
##### Windows
Windows downloads are and will be available on the StackDS website:
http://stackds.emmettboudreau.com
##### MacOS/OSX
MacOS and OSX builds will be available post Beta
open up source directory with cd ~/
## Documentation
Documentation is available on the GitHub Wiki page.
# Changelog
**Version 0.0.6_____________** \
Updated UI \
Added functionality to certain menus \
Added internal Error GUI \
Added Export to HTML \
Extended Content Drop Capability \
Added SKLearn as a dependency \
Enabled Pipeline Menu \
Added functionality for opening pipelines \
Enabled Debug mode (Not stored) \
**Version 0.0.5_____________** \
Updated preferences menu \
Fixed Title bug \
Updated GUI layout \
Added Clean DataFrame Function \
Fixed Df Drop Content \
Added extension capability \
**Version 0.0.4_____________** \
Added Preferences menu \
Added documentation link \
Added weblinks \
Added pipelines menu \
Removed Debug by default \
Added html5 export to menu \
Added extension loader \
Added extension menu \
Added customizable extensions \
Added export pipeline to menu \
**ATTENTION** \
The next version, 0.0.5, will be the last release of a standalone StackDS build, and will instead come standard with Dashly: An application for making visualizations and Plot.ly Dashes with DFs directly through StackDS, and Zipy, an easy to use interface for applied machine learning for making predictions. The standalone Version of StackDS will be available here:
https://github.com/emmettgb/Stack-DS-Standalone \
**Version 0.0.3_____________** \
Added Preferences Base \
Added Module menu(Not Visible) \
Added DF - Replace, Drop \
**Version 0.0.2_____________** \
Enabled Debug by Default for Alpha 0.0.2 \
Added df refresh function \
Added DataFrame Filemenu, \
Added Image Renderer, and CSV export \
Added global CSS \
Added Notebook ID updater \
**Version 0.0.1_____________**
___Init___
